# Number Guessing Game API

This API allows users to play a number guessing game where the goal is to guess a randomly selected number within a limited range and number of attempts. The game includes three difficulty levels: Easy, Medium, and Hard.

## API Endpoints

### 1. Start Game

**Endpoint:** `POST /start-game`

**Description:** Initiates a new game session with the specified difficulty level.

**Difficulty Options:** easy, medium, hard.

**Request Parameters:**


```json
{
    "difficulty": "easy"
}
```

**Response Structure:**

```json
{
    "userId": "<uuid>",
    "msg": "Game started."
}
```
**userId:** Unique identifier for the game session.\
**msg:** Confirmation message indicating that the game has started.

### Difficulty Levels:

**Easy:** Number range 1-50, 15 attempts\
**Medium:** Number range 1-100, 10 attempts\
**Hard:** Number range 1-200, 7 attempts


### 2. Guess

**Endpoint:** `POST /guess`

**Description:** Allows the user to submit a guess for the ongoing game.

**Request Parameters:**

```json
{
    "userId": "<uuid>",
    "guess": "<number>"
}
```

**userId:** The unique identifier for the game session, generated by the start-game API.\
**guess:** The user's guessed number.


### 3. Game State (Debugging Only

**Endpoint:** GET /state

**Description:** Retrieves the current game state, including progress and remaining attempts. This endpoint is for debugging purposes only.

**Request Parameters:**

```json
{
    "userId": "<uuid>"
}
```
**Headers:**

**Dev_Secret_Key:** Required for authentication to access the game state.

# Scoring Algorithm
The score in the Number Guessing Game is calculated based on the following components:

1. Base Score:
The initial score, which decreases with each guess and as time passes.
Varies by difficulty level.
2. Guess Penalty:
Each incorrect guess reduces the score.
The penalty per guess varies by difficulty level.
3. Time Penalty:
The longer it takes to guess the correct number, the lower the score.
The penalty per second or minute varies by difficulty level.
4. Bonus for Winning:
A bonus is added to the score if the user wins the game within a certain number of guesses or within a certain time.
Scoring Formula:
Score = Base Score − (Penalty per Guess × Number of Guesses) − (Penalty per Second × Time Taken) + Win Bonus


**Difficulty Level Parameters:**
| Difficulty | Base Score    | Penalty per Guess   | Penalty per Second | Win Bonus
| :---:   | :---: | :---:  | :---: | :---:
| Easy | 1000   | 20   | 2 | 100
| Medium | 1500   | 30   | 3 | 150
| Hard | 2000   | 50   | 5 | 200

**Example Calculation:**\
    <br />
      Difficulty: Easy\
      Base Score: 1000\
     Number of Guesses: 8\
      Time Taken: 120 seconds (2 minutes)\
      Win Bonus: 100\
    <br />
**Score Calculation:**\
    <br />
      Score = 1000 − (20 × 8) − (2 × 120) + 100\
      Score = 1000 − 160 − 240 + 100\
      Score = 700
    <br />
